---
layout: paper
title: "A Synthetic Texas Backbone Power System with Climate-Dependent Spatio-Temporal Correlated Profiles"
image: 
authors: Jin Lu, Xingpeng Li, Hongyi Li, Taher Chegini, Carlos Gamarra, Y. C. Ethan Yang, Margaret Cook, and Gavin Dillingham.
year: 2023
ref: Jin Lu et al, arXiv, 2023. 
journal: "arXiv"
pdf: 
webpdf: 
codes: 
codesdata: /resources/TX-123BT/
doi: 
arxiv: 
---

# Abstract
Most power system test cases only have electrical parameters and can be used only for studies based on a snapshot of system profiles. To facilitate more comprehensive and practical studies, a synthetic power system including spatio-temporal correlated profiles for the entire year of 2019 at one-hour resolution has been created in this work. This system, referred to as the synthetic Texas 123-bus backbone transmission (TX-123BT) system, has very similar temporal and spatial characteristics with the actual Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) system. It has a backbone network consisting of only high-voltage transmission lines in Texas, which is obtained by the K-medoids clustering method. The climate data extracted from the North American Land Data Assimilation System (NLDAS) are used to create the climate-dependent profiles of renewable generation and transmission thermal limits. Two climate-dependent models are implemented to determine wind and solar power production profiles respectively. In addition, two sets of climate-dependent dynamic line rating (DLR) profiles are created with the actual climate information: (i) daily DLR and (ii) hourly DLR. Simulation results of security-constrained unit commitment (SCUC) conducted on each of the daily system profiles have validated the developed one-year hourly time series dataset.

# Index Terms
Annual power system profiles, backbone transmission topology, climate-dependent renewable models, dynamic line rating, K-medoids clustering, power system operations, security-constrained unit commitment, test power system, transmission line rating.

# Cite this paper:
Jin Lu, Xingpeng Li, Hongyi Li, Taher Chegini, Carlos Gamarra, Y. C. Ethan Yang, Margaret Cook, and Gavin Dillingham, “A Synthetic Texas Backbone Power System with Climate-Dependent Spatio-Temporal Correlated Profiles”, *arXiv*, Feb. 2023.

# Authorship Contributions
* Jin Lu: Methodology, Investigation, Validation, Data collection and curation, Programming, Simulation, Case Studies, Visualization, and Writing – original draft and review & editing. 
* Xingpeng Li: Conceptualization, Methodology, Analysis, Supervision, Resources, Feedback, and Writing – review & editing.
* Hongyi Li and Taher Chegini provided the raw historical climate data (extracted from an open-access dataset - NLDAS).
* Hongyi Li, Carlos Gamarra, Y. C. Ethan Yang, Margaret Cook, and Gavin Dillingham: Feedback, and Writing – review & editing. 




