---
layout: resource
title: ECE6379 Power System Operations and Modeling
authors: Xingpeng Li
type: Course
zip: 
timeInit: 2021-12-11
time: 2021-12-11
github:
link: https://figshare.com/ndownloader/files/31734431
doi: 10.6084/m9.figshare.17161805.v1
description: "Materials for graduate course ECE6379 offered at the University of Houston in 2021 Fall; some modifications were made to improve the material quality"
---


## Power System Operations and Modeling (PSOM)
This zipped file contains the course materials for ECE-6379 *Power System Operations and Modeling* offered at the University of Houston in 2021 Fall; some minor modifications were made to improve the material quality before making it publicly available. 

#### Primary Text:
*Power Generation, Operation, and Control*, 3rd edition, by Allen J. Wood, Bruce F. Wollenberg, and Gerald B. Sheblé.

This course uses the above book as the primary text; many materials used in the lecture are directly from the book (3rd edition and 2nd edition). 

#### Course Description:
This course discusses power system generation, transmission, modeling, operations, and reliability. This course covers the characteristics of generators and transmission networks and then expands to the most common electric power generation scheduling and system monitoring, reliability and operation problems. Specifically, this course will cover power flow, contingency analysis, state estimation, sensitivity factors, optimal power flow, economic dispatch, unit commitment, production cost models, and energy markets. Optimization algorithms that are commonly used to solve these problems will also be covered including linear programming, mixed-integer linear programming, Lagrange relaxation, dynamic programming, branch and bound, and duality theory.

#### Course Scope and Specific Topics:
* Lectures 1:      Course Introduction
* Lectures 2-3:    Generation & Business environment
* Lectures 4-6:    Economic Dispatch/OPF
* Lectures 7-10:   Unit Commitment
* Lectures 11-13:  Power Flow
* Lectures 13-15:  Sensitivity Factors
* Lectures 16-18:  Security
* Lectures 18-19:  State Estimation
* Lecture 20:      OPF Revisit
* Lecture 21:      SCUC Revisit.
* Lecture 22-24:   Energy Markets
* Lecture 25:      Fuel-Hydro
* Lecture 26:      Hydro-Thermal Coordination

#### Software Requirements:
This course uses Matlab and AMPL (other similar substitute tools may work as well).

#### Shared Contents:
1. Folder "Lectures" contains all lecture source \*.ppt slides and converted pdf copies. Notes used in the lecture are also included.
2. Folder "Assignments" contains all assignments (source files and the corresponding pdf copies): (i) 5 homework assignments, (ii) 2 online open-book open-note quizzes, (iii) 1 discussion assignment, and (iv) the project assignment. Solutions and Exams are not included. If you are a faculty who plans to use these materials, I would be happy to provide solutions; please feel free to send me an email with your institutional email account. My contact information is listed below.
3. Folder "AMPL" provides basic information and tutorial materials for AMPL.
4. Folder "AMPL_codes" provides 30 AMPL programs, including simple tutorial-level examples and codes for course-level DCOPF, SCUC and LMP examples that are used for this class.
5. file_List.txt lists each individual file contained in this folder including all subfolders.


## Contact:
Dr. Xingpeng Li

University of Houston

Email: xli83@central.uh.edu

Website: https://rpglab.github.io/


## Figshare:
This folder was initially uploaded on Figshare. The link is as follows:
<a class="off" href="https://figshare.com/articles/online_resource/ECE6379_PSOM_zip/17161805"  target="_blank">https://figshare.com/articles/online_resource/ECE6379_PSOM_zip/17161805</a>


## Citation:
<a class="off" href="https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.17161805.v1"  target="_blank">Li, Xingpeng (2021): ECE6379_PSOM.zip. figshare. Online resource. https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.17161805.v1</a>


## License:
This work is licensed under the terms of the <a class="off" href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"  target="_blank">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 (CC BY 4.0) license.</a>


## Disclaimer:
The author doesn’t make any warranty for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information disclosed and the author assumes no liability or responsibility for any errors or omissions for the information (data/code/results etc) disclosed.
