---
layout: resource
title: SOPF in AMPL
authors: Xingpeng Li
type: AMPL Code
zip: /zips/ampl_codes/SOPF-AMPL.zip
timeInit: 2021-12-13
time: 2021-12-13
github: https://github.com/rpglab/SOPF_N-1_CNR
paper: /papers/XLI-QX-SOPFwNR/
link: 
doi: 
description: "This is for our T&D paper: *Stochastic Optimal Power Flow with Network Reconfiguration: Congestion Management and Facilitating Grid Integration of Renewables*. It implements four different stochastic OPF models."
---


# SOPF
This repo implements four different Stochastic Optimal Power Flow (SOPF) models in AMPL.

* Model 1, R-SOPF, a relaxed SOPF model that assums infinite network capacity.

* Model 2, N-SOPF, a normal SOPF model that enforces base-case network constraints only.

* Model 3, E-SOPF, a N-1 SOPF model that enforces both base-case network constraints and contingency-case network constraints.

* Model 4, E-SOPFwNR, a N-1 SOPF w. CTS model that implements corrective transmission switching in post-contingency cases beyong the N-1 SOPF model.

Simulations:
* The test case used here is a modified IEEE RTS-96 reliability test system (24-bus). The reference is: "The IEEE Reliability Test System-1996. A report prepared by the Reliability Test System Task Force of the Application of Probability Methods Subcommittee" and link is <a class="" target="_blank" href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/780914">here</a>. 

* Though only tested on this single system here, these codes can work on any other systems.

* For the most complex model (E-SOPFwNR), the code takes 130 seconds (~2 minutes) on a laptop: Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-8850H CPU @ 2.60GHz, 32 GB RAM, Windows 10.

The following paper provides more details about these four models: 

* <a class="off" href="/papers/XLI-QX-SOPFwNR" target="_blank">Xingpeng Li and Qianxue Xia, “Stochastic Optimal Power Flow with Network Reconfiguration: Congestion Management and Facilitating Grid Integration of Renewables”, *IEEE PES T&D Conference & Exposition*, (Virtually), Chicago, IL, USA, Oct. 2020. (DOI: 10.1109/TD39804.2020.9299954)</a>

## Citation:
If you use these codes for your work, please cite the following paper:

<a class="off" href="/papers/XLI-QX-SOPFwNR" target="_blank">Xingpeng Li and Qianxue Xia, “Stochastic Optimal Power Flow with Network Reconfiguration: Congestion Management and Facilitating Grid Integration of Renewables”, *IEEE PES T&D Conference & Exposition*, (Virtually), Chicago, IL, USA, Oct. 2020.</a>

## Contact:
Dr. Xingpeng Li

University of Houston

Email: xli83@central.uh.edu

Website: <a class="off" href="/"  target="_blank">https://rpglab.github.io/</a>


## License:
This work is licensed under the terms of the <a class="off" href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"  target="_blank">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 (CC BY 4.0) license.</a>


## Disclaimer:
The author doesn’t make any warranty for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information disclosed; and the author assumes no liability or responsibility for any errors or omissions for the information (data/code/results etc) disclosed.
