---
layout: resource
title: TEP in AMPL
authors: Xingpeng Li
type: AMPL Code
zip: /zips/ampl_codes/TEP-AMPL.zip
timeInit: 2021-12-13
time: 2021-12-13
github: https://github.com/rpglab/TEP_SNO
link: 
doi: 
description: "This set of codes implements three different Transmission Expansion Planning (TEP) models: (i) a normal TEP model, (iii) a TEP model considers seasonal network optimization (SNO), and (iii) a TEP model considers enhanced SNO."
---

# Transmission Expansion Planning
This repo implements three different Transmission Expansion Planning (TEP) models in AMPL.

* Model 1, TEP, a normal TEP model that is used as a Benchmark here.

* Model 2, TEP w. SNO ("TEP-SNO-T1"), this TEP model optimizes the network topology for each season in the planning horizon. In this model, the status of new lines is NOT optimized. In other words, a new line, once it is constructed, is always considered to be in the network for all subsequent seasons.

* Model 3, TEP w. Enhanced SNO ("TEP-SNO-T2"), this TEP model optimizes the network topology for each season in the planning horizon. In this model, the status of new lines is also optimized. In other words, a new line can be disconnected from the network for the subsequent seasons after its construction.

Simulations:
* The test case used here is a modified IEEE RTS-96 reliability test system (24-bus). The reference is: "The IEEE Reliability Test System-1996. A report prepared by the Reliability Test System Task Force of the Application of Probability Methods Subcommittee" and link is <a class="" target="_blank" href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/780914">here</a>. 

* For simulation results provided here were obtained with the following computer: Intel Xeon W-2195 2.3GHz, 4.3GHz Turbo, 18C, 24.75M Cache, HT, (140W) DDR4-2666; 128GB (8x16GB) DDR4 2666MHz RDIMM ECC; M.2 512GB PCIe NVMe Class 40 Solid State Drive.

* Though only tested on this single system here, these codes can work on any other systems.


The following paper provides more details about these three models: 

* <a class="off" href="/papers/XLI-QX-TEPwSNO" target="_blank">Xingpeng Li and Qianxue Xia, “Power System Expansion Planning with Seasonal Network Optimization,” Innovative Smart Grid Technologies (ISGT), Washington D.C., USA, Feb. 2020. (DOI: 10.1109/ISGT45199.2020.9087743)</a>

## Citation:
If you use these codes for your work, please cite the following paper:

<a class="off" href="/papers/XLI-QX-TEPwSNO" target="_blank">Xingpeng Li and Qianxue Xia, “Power System Expansion Planning with Seasonal Network Optimization,” Innovative Smart Grid Technologies (ISGT), Washington D.C., USA, Feb. 2020.</a>


## Contact:
Dr. Xingpeng Li

University of Houston

Email: xli83@central.uh.edu

Website: <a class="off" href="/"  target="_blank">https://rpglab.github.io/</a>


## License:
This work is licensed under the terms of the <a class="off" href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"  target="_blank">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 (CC BY 4.0) license.</a>


## Disclaimer:
The author doesn’t make any warranty for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information disclosed; and the author assumes no liability or responsibility for any errors or omissions for the information (data/code/results etc) disclosed.
