---
layout: resource
title: Time-Domain Simulation Samples for Frequency-Constrained Look-Ahead Energy Scheduling 
authors: Mingjian Tuo
type: Dataset
zip: 
timeInit: 2023-07-24
time: 2023-07-24
github: 
paper: /papers/MJ-Tuo-ALSNN-RCUC/
link: https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/PSS_E_Dynamics_Simulation_Output/23582391
doi: 
description: "This is the raw dataset (12.74 GB) for over 8,000 samples from power system time-domain simulation on the IEEE 24-bus test system, generated by PSS/E."
---

This is the raw dataset (12.74 GB) for over 8,000 samples from power system time-domain simulation on the IEEE 24-bus test system. This dataset was used for our frequency-constrained SCUC studies that led to multiple papers. This dataset can also be used for frequency-constrained OPF studies.

The download time could be a few hours long due to the size of this dataset. So, you may need to have stable internet to successfully download it.

#### Test System Description:
* The IEEE 24-bus power system used here is one area out of the three-area system modified IEEE RTS-96 reliability test system (73-bus). The original reference is: "The IEEE Reliability Test System-1996. A report prepared by the Reliability Test System Task Force of the Application of Probability Methods Subcommittee" and link is <a class="" target="_blank" href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/780914">here</a>. 


## Citation:
If you use any module/data here for your work, please cite the following papers as your references:

1. Mingjian Tuo and Xingpeng Li, “Deep Learning based Security-Constrained Unit Commitment Considering Locational Frequency Stability in Low-Inertia Power Systems”, *54th North American Power Symposium*, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, Oct. 2022.
2. Mingjian Tuo and Xingpeng Li, “Active Linearized Sparse Neural Network-based Frequency-Constrained Unit Commitment”, arXiv:2307.04880, Jul. 2023.

Paper1 website: <a class="off" href="/papers/MJ-Tuo_DL_SCUC_LFS-NAPS/"  target="_blank">https://rpglab.github.io/papers/MJ-Tuo_DL_SCUC_LFS-NAPS/</a>

Paper2 website: <a class="off" href="/papers/MJ-Tuo-ALSNN-RCUC/"  target="_blank">https://rpglab.github.io/papers/MJ-Tuo-ALSNN-RCUC/</a>



## Contributions:
Mingjian Tuo created this dataset. Xingpeng Li supervised this work.


## Contact:
Dr. Xingpeng Li

University of Houston

Email: xli83@central.uh.edu

Website: <a class="off" href="/"  target="_blank">https://rpglab.github.io/</a>


## License:
This work is licensed under the terms of the <a class="off" href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"  target="_blank">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 (CC BY 4.0) license.</a>


## Disclaimer:
The author doesn’t make any warranty for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information disclosed; and the author assumes no liability or responsibility for any errors or omissions for the information (data/code/results etc) disclosed.

