---
layout: resource
title: ECE6379 Power System Operations and Modeling (2025F_rev)
authors: Xingpeng Li
type: Course
zip: 
timeInit: 2021-12-11
time: 2026-03-06
github:
link: https://figshare.com/ndownloader/files/62458114
doi: 10.6084/m9.figshare.17161805
description: "Materials for graduate-level class ECE6379 offered at UH in 2025 Fall with minor modifications"
---

(if the download/Figshare link shows '403' error, please use a different browser or the Chrome Incognito mode)

## Power System Operations and Modeling (PSOM)
This zipped file contains the course materials for ECE-6379 *Power System Operations and Modeling* offered at the University of Houston in 2025 Fall with minor modifications. 

#### New changes in the 2025F release:
Compared to the 2021F release, I corrected typos, modified some HW problems, and re-designed the class project, etc. I also combined previous lecture 25 on Fuel-Hydro and lecture 26 (Hydro-Thermal Coordination) into one single lecture that was made optional.

I made major changes about class project. The newly designed project in this 2025F release is now a two-phase assignment: (i) Phase-I is about transmission expansion planning that is the same with the project of 2021F version; and the associated complete sources codes (in both AMPL & Python) were provided; (ii) Phase-II is about joint generation and transmission expansion planning.

For in-class lecture examples, we now also provide Python/Pyomo source codes, in addition to the AMPL codes that were provided in 2021F version. Special thanks to my PhD student Haoxiang Wan for translating the AMPL programs into Python programs, including the project codes.


#### Primary Text:
*Power Generation, Operation, and Control*, 3rd edition, by Allen J. Wood, Bruce F. Wollenberg, and Gerald B. Sheblé.

This course uses the above book as the primary text; many materials used in the lecture are directly from the book (3rd edition and 2nd edition). 

#### Course Description:
This course discusses power system generation, transmission, modeling, operations, and reliability. This course covers the characteristics of generators and transmission networks and then expands to the most common electric power generation scheduling and system monitoring, reliability and operation problems. Specifically, this course will cover power flow, contingency analysis, state estimation, sensitivity factors, optimal power flow, economic dispatch, unit commitment, production cost models, and energy markets. Optimization algorithms that are commonly used to solve these problems will also be covered including linear programming, mixed-integer linear programming, Lagrange relaxation, dynamic programming, branch and bound, and duality theory.

#### Course Scope and Specific Topics:
* Lectures 1:      Course Introduction
* Lectures 2-3:    Generation & Business environment
* Lectures 4-6:    Economic Dispatch/OPF
* Lectures 7-10:   Unit Commitment
* Lectures 11-13:  AC & DC Power Flow analysis
* Lectures 13-15:  Sensitivity Factors
* Lectures 16-18:  Security
* Lectures 18-19:  State Estimation
* Lecture 20:      OPF Revisit
* Lecture 21:      SCUC Revisit.
* Lecture 22-24:   Energy Markets
* Lecture 25:      Fuel-Hydro & Hydro-Thermal Coordination 


#### Software Requirements:
This course uses Matlab and AMPL (other similar substitute tools may work as well).

#### Shared Contents:
1. Folder "__Lectures" contains all lecture source PowerPoint slides and converted PDF copies. Notes used in the lectures are also included.
2. Folder "_Examples_Codes\AMPL_Codes" contains provides 30 AMPL programs, including simple tutorial-level examples and codes for course-level DCOPF, SCUC and LMP examples that are used for this class. AMPL tutorial is also provided.
3. Folder "_Examples_Codes\Python_Codes" contains provides 30 Python/Pyomo programs, including simple tutorial-level examples and codes for course-level DCOPF, SCUC and LMP examples that are used for this class. 
4. Folder "Discussion_Assignment" contains 1 discussion assignment (both word and PDF files). 
5. Folder "HWs" contains 5 homework assignments (both word and PDF files). 
6. Folder "Project" contains the project assignment (both word and PDF files; and data/codes). 
7. Folder "Quizzes" contains 2 online open-book open-note quizzes (both word and PDF files). 
8. Syllabus is also provided as a reference. 

Assignment Solutions, Tests/Exams and their solutions are not included here. If you are an instructor and plan to use these materials, I would be happy to provide such for-instructor-only materials; please feel free to send me an email with your institutional email account. My contact information is listed below.


## Contact:
Dr. Xingpeng Li

University of Houston

Email: xli83@central.uh.edu

Website: https://rpglab.github.io/


## Figshare:
This folder was initially uploaded on Figshare. The link is as follows:
<a class="off" href="https://figshare.com/articles/online_resource/ECE6379_PSOM_zip/17161805"  target="_blank">https://figshare.com/articles/online_resource/ECE6379_PSOM_zip/17161805</a>


## Citation:
<a class="off" href="https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.17161805"  target="_blank">Li, Xingpeng (2021). ECE6379_PSOM.zip. figshare. Online resource. https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.17161805.v2</a>


## License:
This work is licensed under the terms of the <a class="off" href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"  target="_blank">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 (CC BY 4.0) license.</a>


## Disclaimer:
The author doesn’t make any warranty for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information disclosed and the author assumes no liability or responsibility for any errors or omissions for the information (data/code/results etc) disclosed.
