---
layout: member
title: Jin Lu
position:  (i) M.S. (ii) PhD Student
time: 2020.05 - present
email: jlu27@cougarnet.uh.edu
image: /images/team/Jin_Lu.jpg
cv: 
index: "Power system planning & restoration, Hydrogen energy, Impact of climate change"
scholar: 
linkedin: jin-lu-9b2826195 
website: 
calendar: 
handle: 
github: 
twitter: 
facebook: 
alumni: 
---

Jin Lu is currently a PhD Student with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Houston, Houston, TX, USA. Jin started working in the RPG lab as a research volunteer in May 2020 and then became a PhD student here in August 2020.

## Education

PhD, Electrical Engineering, University of Houston, 2020 - present

M.S., Electrical Engineering, University of Houston, 2020

B.S., Electrical Engineering, Dalian Maritime University, 2019


## Publications at UH RPG Lab 
1. Jin Lu and Xingpeng Li, “Annual Benefit Analysis of Integrating the Seasonal Hydrogen Storage into the Renewable Power Grids”, *IEEE PES General Meeting*, Orlando, Florida, USA, Jul. 2023.
2. Jesus Silva-Rodriguez, Jin Lu and Xingpeng Li, “Cost-Benefit Analysis and Comparisons for Different Offshore Wind Energy Transmission Systems”, *Offshore Technology Conference*, Houston, TX, USA, May 2023.
3. Jin Lu and Xingpeng Li, “The Benefits of Hydrogen Energy Transmission and Conversion Systems to the Renewable Power Grids: Day-ahead Unit Commitment”, *54th North American Power Symposium*, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, Oct. 2022.
4. Jin Lu and Xingpeng Li, “Optimal Skeleton Network Reconfiguration considering Topological Characteristics and Transmission Path,” *53rd North American Power Symposium*, College Station,TX, USA, Nov. 2021.
5. Jin Lu, Xingpeng Li, Hongyi Li, Taher Chegini, Carlos Gamarra, Y. C. Ethan Yang, Margaret Cook, and Gavin Dillingham, “A Synthetic Texas Backbone Power System with Climate-Dependent Spatio-Temporal Correlated Profiles”, *arXiv*, Feb. 2023.



## Research Interests:

Power system operations and planning, power system restoration, renewable power systems with hydrogen energy.