---
layout: member
title: Jin Lu
position:  (i) M.S. (ii) Ph.D.
time: 2020.05 - 2024.08
email: jlu27@cougarnet.uh.edu
image: /images/team/Jin_Lu.jpg
cv: 
index: "Power system planning & restoration, Hydrogen energy, Impact of climate change"
scholar: 
PhDissertation: 
PhDefenseSlides: /pdfs/team/2024-08-16_Jin_Lu_Presentation.pdf
linkedin: jin-lu-9b2826195 
website: 
calendar: 
handle: 
github: 
twitter: 
facebook: 
alumni: true
---

Dr. Jin Lu received his PhD degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Houston, Houston, TX, USA in August 2024. Jin started working in the RPG lab as a research assistant in May 2020 when he completed his MS degree at UH, and then became a PhD student here in August 2020. Jin worked in the RPG lab as a PhD student from Aug. 2020 to Aug. 2024.

PhD Dissertation title: *"Optimization of Integrated Power Systems with Hydrogen-Based Infrastructure: Strategic Operation, Planning and Benefits Analysis"*

First Job: Transmission Analyst, Apex Clean Energy, USA.

## Education

PhD, Electrical Engineering, University of Houston, 2020 - 2024

M.S., Electrical Engineering, University of Houston, 2020

B.S., Electrical Engineering, Dalian Maritime University, 2019


## Publications at UH RPG Lab 
1. Jin Lu and Xingpeng Li, “Transmission Expansion Planning for Renewable-Energy-Dominated Power Grids Considering Climate Impact”, *Journal of Modern Power Systems and Clean Energy*, vol. 12, no. 6, pp. 1737-1748, Nov. 2024.
2. Jin Lu, Xingpeng Li, Hongyi Li, Taher Chegini, Carlos Gamarra, Y. C. Ethan Yang, Margaret Cook, and Gavin Dillingham, “A Synthetic Texas Power System with Time-Series Weather-Dependent Spatiotemporal Profiles”, *Sustainable Energy, Grids and Networks*, vol. 43, Sep. 2025. 
3. Ali Ghaffari, Fengwei Hung, Y. C. Ethan Yang, Jin Lu, and Xingpeng Li, “Development of a coupled agent-based generation expansion planning tool with a power dispatch model”, *Energy and Climate Change*, vol. 5, Dec. 2024. 
4. Jin Lu and Xingpeng Li, “Annual Benefit Analysis of Integrating the Seasonal Hydrogen Storage into the Renewable Power Grids”, *IEEE PES General Meeting*, Orlando, Florida, USA, Jul. 2023.
5. Jesus Silva-Rodriguez, Jin Lu and Xingpeng Li, “Cost-Benefit Analysis and Comparisons for Different Offshore Wind Energy Transmission Systems”, *Offshore Technology Conference*, Houston, TX, USA, May 2023.
6. Jin Lu and Xingpeng Li, “The Benefits of Hydrogen Energy Transmission and Conversion Systems to the Renewable Power Grids: Day-ahead Unit Commitment”, *54th North American Power Symposium*, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, Oct. 2022.
7. Jin Lu and Xingpeng Li, “Optimal Skeleton Network Reconfiguration considering Topological Characteristics and Transmission Path,” *53rd North American Power Symposium*, College Station,TX, USA, Nov. 2021.
8. Jonathan Yang, Mingjian Tuo, Jin Lu, and Xingpeng Li, “Analysis of Weather and Time Features in Machine Learning-aided ERCOT Load Forecasting”, *IEEE Texas Power and Energy Conference*, College Station, TX, Feb. 2024.
9. Jin Lu, Linhan Fang, Fan Jiang, and Xingpeng Li, “A Black Start Strategy for Hydrogen-integrated Renewable Grids with Energy Storage Systems”, *IEEE International Conference in Energy Technologies for Future Grids*, Wollongong, Australia, Dec. 2025.
10. Jin Lu and Xingpeng Li, “Power and Hydrogen Hybrid Transmission for Renewable Energy Systems: An Integrated Expansion Planning Strategy”, *arXiv*.



## Research Interests:

Power system operations and planning, power system restoration, renewable power systems with hydrogen energy.